# Pages & Playlists

#### Video Demo: [https://youtu.be/Ai0zD_UW9Ec](https://youtu.be/Ai0zD_UW9Ec)

#### Description:

Pages & Playlists is a website that uses Python with SQLite and Flask for backend and HTML and CSS with Bootstrap for frontend.

Users can login, add/remove books to/from their reading lists, leave reviews and read other's reviews and add new books to the catalogue.

-   /static/
    -   favicon-cropped.ico - Used as the favicon that you see near the title of the page. Cropped version of favicon.ico and used in the main site.
    -   favicon.ico - Not used anywhere in the site, but used to prepare favicon-cropped.ico. This is favicon.webp converted to .ico online.
    -   favicon.webp - Not used anywhere in the site, but used to prepare favicon-cropped.ico. This was generated using ChatGPT.
    -   style.css - Additional styles for the site using CSS. It took a lot of fine tuning with sizes and colour picking. It was not as simple as I thought to pick a colour scheme that matches well with every element and with the logo. With over 150 lines of CSS, the frontend CSS is one of the hardest challenges I faced while building this site. Though I had put in a lot of work,it isn't perfect and a lot could be improved like making the site more responsive, etc,.
        The colour scheme I finally settled on was based on iceberg-dark theme from [Monkeytype](https://monkeytype.com). It imports font Nunito from google font API.
-   /templates/
    -   layout.html - The heart of the frontend. As the app uses Flask, this file is the main template for all other HTML files. All other files are built over this template. It fixes a navbar in the header and a footer. Uses bootstrap and style.css for styling. The navbar and footer appear in every page. The navbar contains the Logo on the left side, Home, Reading List, Add Book and Logout on the right if the user is logged in. Otherwise, only Home, Register and Login appear on the right side.
    -   catalogue.html - The landing page of the site. Contains all the books in the database if not logged in and only the books not in the reading list if logged in. Each book is a card, with the book cover, title and author with a add to reading list button as an icon. Every card is clickable and takes the user to the page of the specific book. The books/cards are arranged in a grid format.
    -   reading.html - Almost the same as catalogue except it is displayed only for users who are logged in. If the user is not logged in and requests for this page, they are taken to the login page. The add to reading list buttons work as remove from reading list buttons.
    -   login.html - A two input form which asks for username and password for the user to login. On submitting, takes the user to home page.
    -   register.html - Another simple two input form that asks the user to create a username and a password. On submitting, takes the user to the login page.
    -   book.html - Uses the url parameter id to identify the requested book. Shows the book cover, title, author, year of publication, description, add to/remove from reading list button, reviews and add a review form. Reviews can be added only when logged in.
    -   add_book.html - Only available to logged in users. They can add a new book by inputting cover URL, title, author, year of publication and description.
-   .gitignore - Ignores some files that are auto-generated by Python and Flask.
-   app.py - The heart of backend. It handles all the requests and SQL commands that need to be executed out when the user interacts with the site. The file uses the helpers.py file from CS50x Finance Problem to add the @login_required decorator. Developing this code was the most fun and interesting part of the whole project as I was able to fully choose and build how the database and python interacted. Supplying requested data to the frontend and getting data from the backend by executing specific SQL commands is the major role of this file.
-   books.db - The database file for the site. Only app.py directly interacts with the database. The schema is written in plan.txt. I drew the schema out in paper and then implemented in SQL with a lot of modifications. The schema was updated throughout the course of development.
-   books-legacy.db - A database file with the same schema as books.db, but contains placeholder data I used instead of books while building the site. The placeholders are just songs and artists.
-   helpers.py - A file from CS50x Finance Problem, used to implement the @login_required decorator in app.py.
-   plan.txt - Text file used for listing out the steps in building the site in the form of a todo list. Also contains the final database schema for the site.
-   README.md - This markdown file. Has the YouTube Demo Video URL and a description of the project.
